modules/localization/msf/README.md, before:

# Multi-sensor Fusion Localization

## Introduction
  The goal of multi-sensor localization is to provide a robust method which can achieve high localization accuracy and resilience in challenging scenes, such as urban downtown, highways, and tunnels. It adaptively uses information from complementary sensors such as GNSS, LiDAR and IMU. If you want to know more details, please refer to our paper [Robust and Precise Vehicle Localization based on Multi-sensor Fusion in Diverse City Scenes] (https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.05805).

## Input
  * Point cloud data from LiDAR sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/velodyne64/compensator/PointCloud2`)
  * Gnss observation and ephemeris data from Gnss sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_obs` and `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_eph`)
  * Gnss best pose from Gnss sensor (ROS topic is `/apollo/sensor/gnss/best_pose`)
  * Imu data from IMU sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/gnss/imu`)
  * Localization map (FLAGS_map_dir + "/" + FLAGS_local_map_name)
  * Parameter config files (velodyne64_novatel_extrinsics_example.yaml, velodyne64_height.yaml, and ant_imu_leverarm.yaml, located in `modules/localization/msf/params/`)

## Output
  * Localization result defined by Protobuf message `LocalizationEstimate`, which can be found in file `localization/proto/localization.proto`. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/pose`)
  * Localization status defined by Protobuf message `LocalizationStatus`, which can be found in file `localization/proto/localization.proto`. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/msf_status`)
  * We also provide intermediate results: Gnss localization result, LiDAR localization result. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/msf_gnss`, `/apollo/localization/msf_lidar`)

## Modes

### MSF Localization Modes
  We provide 4 modes for msf localization module. 3-Systems uses gnss localization result all the time, while 2-Systems only apply gnss localization result to initilize SINS alignment.
  1. 3-Systems(BestGnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(0), gnss_only_init(false).
  2. 3-Systems(Local-Gnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(1), gnss_only_init(false).
  3. 2-Systems(BestGnss + LiDAR + SINS):gnss_mode(0), gnss_only_init(true).
  4. 2-Systems(Local-Gnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(1), gnss_only_init(true).

### GNSS Localization Setting
  This module works in two modes. One is directly to use gnss best pose (`/apollo/sensor/gnss/best_pose`) from INS system, such as NovAtel system. In the second mode, the initial gnss observations and ephemeris information (`/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_obs` and `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_eph`) are used to calculate gnss localization result.

  You can set `gnss_mode` in `apollo/localization/conf/localization.conf` to decide which mode you want to use. The default mode is gnss best pose.

### LiDAR Localization Setting
  We provide three modes of LiDAR localization: intensity, altitude, and fusion. You can set the parameter `lidar_localization_mode` in file localization.conf to choose the mode. Considering computing ability of different platforms, we provide `lidar_filter_size`, `lidar_thread_num` and `point_cloud_step` to adjust the computation cost. Futhermore, we provide three yaw optimization methods in LiDAR localization algorithm. You can set the parameter `lidar_yaw_align_mode` in file localization.conf to choose the mode.

## Gnerate Localization Map
  Localization map is used for LiDAR-based localization, which is a grid-cell representation of the environment. Each cell stores the statistics of laser reflection intensity and altitude. The map is organized as a group of map nodes. For more information, please refer to `apollo/modules/localization/msf/local_map`.

  We provide a script (`apollo/scripts/msf_local_map_creator.sh`) to generate localization map. You need to provide a group of point cloud frames (as .pcd file), corresponding poses file, and UTM zone id. The format of the poses file is `pcd_number timestamp x y z qx qy qz qw`.

## Visualization Tool
  We provide a simple online visulazation tool for debug multi-sensor fusion localization module. The parameter `use_visualize` in localizaiton.conf is used to enable the online visulazation tool.

  We also provide an advanced online visualization tool which can show localization map, point cloud, horizontal position and variance circle of LiDAR-localization, Gnss-localization, and fused localization results. This tool is simplely launched by `./scripts/localization_online_visualizer.sh`.

Commit message:

Localization: Use enum to represent msf localization status instead of uint32_t. (#2146)
* Localization: Use enum to represent msf localization status instead of uint32_t.

* Localization: change latest_lidar_localization_status_ from uint32_t to MeasureState.

* Localization: Add localization status checking description in README.md

modules/localization/msf/README.md, after:

# Multi-sensor Fusion Localization

## Introduction
  The goal of multi-sensor localization is to provide a robust method which can achieve high localization accuracy and resilience in challenging scenes, such as urban downtown, highways, and tunnels. It adaptively uses information from complementary sensors such as GNSS, LiDAR and IMU. If you want to know more details, please refer to our paper [Robust and Precise Vehicle Localization based on Multi-sensor Fusion in Diverse City Scenes] (https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.05805).

## Input
  * Point cloud data from LiDAR sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/velodyne64/compensator/PointCloud2`)
  * Gnss observation and ephemeris data from Gnss sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_obs` and `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_eph`)
  * Gnss best pose from Gnss sensor (ROS topic is `/apollo/sensor/gnss/best_pose`)
  * Imu data from IMU sensor (ROS topic `/apollo/sensor/gnss/imu`)
  * Localization map (FLAGS_map_dir + "/" + FLAGS_local_map_name)
  * Parameter config files (velodyne64_novatel_extrinsics_example.yaml, velodyne64_height.yaml, and ant_imu_leverarm.yaml, located in `modules/localization/msf/params/`)

## Output
  * Localization result defined by Protobuf message `LocalizationEstimate`, which can be found in file `localization/proto/localization.proto`. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/pose`)
  * Localization status defined by Protobuf message `LocalizationStatus`, which can be found in file `localization/proto/localization.proto`. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/msf_status`)
  * We also provide intermediate results: Gnss localization result, LiDAR localization result. (ROS topic `/apollo/localization/msf_gnss`, `/apollo/localization/msf_lidar`)

## Modes

### MSF Localization Modes
  We provide 4 modes for msf localization module. 3-Systems uses gnss localization result all the time, while 2-Systems only apply gnss localization result to initilize SINS alignment.
  1. 3-Systems(BestGnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(0), gnss_only_init(false).
  2. 3-Systems(Local-Gnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(1), gnss_only_init(false).
  3. 2-Systems(BestGnss + LiDAR + SINS):gnss_mode(0), gnss_only_init(true).
  4. 2-Systems(Local-Gnss + LiDAR + SINS): gnss_mode(1), gnss_only_init(true).

### GNSS Localization Setting
  This module works in two modes. One is directly to use gnss best pose (`/apollo/sensor/gnss/best_pose`) from INS system, such as NovAtel system. In the second mode, the initial gnss observations and ephemeris information (`/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_obs` and `/apollo/sensor/gnss/rtk_eph`) are used to calculate gnss localization result.

  You can set `gnss_mode` in `apollo/localization/conf/localization.conf` to decide which mode you want to use. The default mode is gnss best pose.

### LiDAR Localization Setting
  We provide three modes of LiDAR localization: intensity, altitude, and fusion. You can set the parameter `lidar_localization_mode` in file localization.conf to choose the mode. Considering computing ability of different platforms, we provide `lidar_filter_size`, `lidar_thread_num` and `point_cloud_step` to adjust the computation cost. Futhermore, we provide three yaw optimization methods in LiDAR localization algorithm. You can set the parameter `lidar_yaw_align_mode` in file localization.conf to choose the mode.

## Gnerate Localization Map
  Localization map is used for LiDAR-based localization, which is a grid-cell representation of the environment. Each cell stores the statistics of laser reflection intensity and altitude. The map is organized as a group of map nodes. For more information, please refer to `apollo/modules/localization/msf/local_map`.

  We provide a script (`apollo/scripts/msf_local_map_creator.sh`) to generate localization map. You need to provide a group of point cloud frames (as .pcd file), corresponding poses file, and UTM zone id. The format of the poses file is `pcd_number timestamp x y z qx qy qz qw`.

## Visualization Tool
  We provide a simple online visulazation tool for debug multi-sensor fusion localization module. The parameter `use_visualize` in localizaiton.conf is used to enable the online visulazation tool.

  We also provide an advanced online visualization tool which can show localization map, point cloud, horizontal position and variance circle of LiDAR-localization, Gnss-localization, and fused localization results. This tool is simplely launched by `./scripts/localization_online_visualizer.sh`.

## Check MSF Localization Status
  We provide a simple way to check lidar localization, gnss localization and fusion localization status. There are four states {NOT_VALID, NOT_STABLE, OK, VALID} for localization status. You can simply use `rostopic echo /apollo/localization/msf_status` to check localization status. If fusion_status is VALID or OK, the output of msf localization is reliable.
